# Project1-NumberGuessingGame

Project 1 – The Number Guessing Game Documentation by Damian Hernandez

This is a project I created during a programming course I took during my first semester at JSU. The course was about the Fundamentals of Computing and Programming, learning what programming was and what it was used for. In this course, we used the programming language Python which is the language I used to code in my project. The name of this program is called The Number Guessing Game. So, to begin I want to breakdown what the purpose of this project is. The program is designed to generate a random number hidden from the player, that the player needs to guess. If the player guesses the wrong number, they can get another try and however many more they need after. There are hints that aid the player by telling them whether the guessed number was too high or too low. Once the player has guessed the right number, the program will output a statement telling the player they guessed the correct number and also shows a record of how many tries it took for them to guess right. The program will then end after the game has been played. It’s a simple game that anyone can play. A new random number is generated each time the program starts up so that way it is a different number every time. Next, I want to explain more about the actual coding that was used to create this program. When starting off with the program, I first wrote a line of coding printing the instructions to the screen for the player to see. This included other outputs such as “Your guess was too high!” or “Your guess was too low!” but I will discuss how those lines of code were implemented later. The print function is what this program uses to output any statements to the screen. Next, the coding for the random number was written and stored in a variable. The random number is going to be in whole numbers so this program uses the integer(int) data type. The code used for this is set so it will generate any number between 1 and 100. Now in some cases the random number can be the same back-to-back but most of the time it is usually going to be different from the last time the program was executed. With the random number now being implemented into the program, next there needs to be a repetition for the wrong guesses which is why this program uses the while loop. The WHILE Loop is a loop that will continue to repeat until it meets the conditions, which in this case is the right guess that matches up with the random number. In the while loop there is the IF and ELIF statement which is what directs the output of whether the guessed number is too high or too low. If the number is too high the output will show “Your guess is too high!” and if it is too low, then the output will show “Your guess is too low!” Depending on what the random number is and what the user guessed, will determine which output the user sees. These output statements are one of the most important aspects of the game. Without them, the game could still be playable, but it would take much longer for the player to guess the right answer. Lastly, a way for the players to be able to type in their guesses. For this, the program uses the input function which allows a user to type in a value that is of the correct data type. In this case, the data type is int since the program uses whole numbers. The input function is stored inside the while loop and outside of it, so that when the program first runs the user can input a value before getting put in the loop. The value of the user input is the stored in a variable so when the last print statement is shown, it can also display how many inputs, or tries, the player has guessed before getting it right. That is the Number Guessing Game, what the purpose is and how it works.
